# FMP-Prototype
- This repository is currently used for my final major project prototype. I started the project in Logic way before I went into FMOD and Unity since I wanted to produce the music myself. First, I started looking for samples, sounds, and instruments without having a clear genre in mind. I was scrolling and listening through different samples on Tracklib until I found one that I really liked. The vocals were warm, and it sounded like an R&B/Soul track could come out of it. I downloaded the sample, implemented it in Logic, and started working.
- The first thing I did was set the BPM to match the sample. After adjusting it, I clocked the project at 62 BPM, which felt really slow—something I am not entirely used to—but I saw this as an opportunity to expand my producing skills. I started by slicing the sample and choosing what parts I considered the most fitting. Usually, I start with my hi-hats just to have a clear rhythm that I can spice up later, but this time I started with my drums first. I was scrolling through Logic's library until I found an electronic drum kit titled "Future Flex." I made this choice since the kick and the sub-kick were really punchy, something I particularly enjoy in songs, so I decided to stick with this one. I added some snares and percussion to make the song more enjoyable. I left the hi-hats for the end as I figured out I could make the composition sound "faster" by placing multiple hi-hats really close to one another.
- Once I decided that the first part of the song was fleshed out, I gave it a listen and felt like something was still "missing." After a couple more listening sessions, I decided to add a second part where the instrumental picks up and is more aggressive while the sample remains calm and slow. It was a really interesting contrast, and I decided to keep it this way. For the drums, I kept the same electronic drum kit, but this time, the pattern was glued closer to give the audio a faster feeling while the project remained at 62 BPM. For the hi-hats, I used a Roland TR-606 and put them even closer than they were in the first part to maintain a fast pace. Since the song was now moving into a more Rap/Trap-like genre, I added some punchy 808s. I wanted them to stand out a bit, so I put a pedal board with the "Monster Fuzz" amp. Now, for percussion, I put a shaker that matches and goes against the hi-hats to add some contrast. The song was ready, so I decided to move into FMOD.
- In FMOD, I divided the song into two loops that matched the different parts of the song. I added region markers in order to be able to transition between the two different parts. I created transition regions, quantized them, added the parameter, and tested it out. Everything was working accordingly, and I started thinking about how I could bring this into Unity and make it interactive. I assigned the event to a master bank, built it, and put it on my desktop so Unity could access it.
- Having everything in place, I booted up Unity to start working on the prototype. I generated an image of a slider to make it as intuitive as possible for the user to play around with the two songs. I chose to make the project in a 2D Unity template since it is going to be mostly UI-based. I imported the slider image and added a button to match it. In order to make the project work, I had to download and implement the Unity package for FMOD. Once this was completed, I was weighing options on how to make the transition work. From previous projects, I learned that it is better to have a script that detects and controls the FMOD event and the parameters within it rather than using an event emitter. I wrote the C# script and added it to the button (the button is the one controlling the parameter as well). After completing this step, I tested the slider, but nothing was happening. The music was playing, which was a good sign, but the button would not move at all. I thought maybe it was a scripting problem, but it wasn't. After spending some time researching, I found out that the latest versions of Unity use a newer Active Input Handling. My script was for the old input, so I changed the setting to "both." After saving it, the slider, the music, and the transition were working accordingly. I saved everything and was ready to push to GitHub.
- Once committing the changes, I noticed that my build banks from FMOD were deleted every time. I added a line to gitignore that was supposed to stop ignoring the banks, but it was no use. I went in every direction possible to understand why that was happening but had no luck. I was confused since I did the same step for all of my previous projects and the line worked, but not this time. Unfortunately, because of this, I was unable to upload the Unity and FMOD projects since they are linked. I will provide videos to prove that the project is working as intended.
- https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b04d2c4-6e71-4c5b-bcf7-a8fe55acbad9 - Logic Project
- https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c0a586e6-ded0-4543-af69-1bc0dc6834e7 - Fmod Project
- https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/97170fa1-4d70-489b-beba-4a48b29b9129 - Unity Project
